### Development scripts

The development of the project is managed through using running code in
`scripts` directory. These scripts are:

  * `scripts/bootstrap` - set up all dependencies required by the project.

  * `scripts/build` - builds the website from the source files.

  * `scripts/build` - ensures all links in the site are valid

  * `scripts/dev` - starts a live version of the website on http://localhost:4567/.

  * `scripts/publish` - deploys the website to bioboxes.org. This is used by
    the [CI server][ci].

### Updating the website

Changes to existing pages can be made by editting the corresponding `.mkd` file
in `./source` directory. A new page can be added to the website by creating a
file in the source directory. Changes to the site page structure can be made by
editting the HAML files in the `./source/layouts` directory. Once you have
finished do the following steps:

  * create a branch containing your commits on a github fork of this
    repository.
  * Create a pull request to the `bioboxes.org/master` branch from the branch
    containing your commits.
  * Create an issue on `bioboxes/rfc` with a description of the changes, with a
    link to the PR.

### Deployment

The website is deployed automatically using [CircleCI][ci]. When a merge is
detected on the master branch, CircleCI will build the website HTML files using
`script/build`, test then using `script/test`, and if they are valid push them
to AWS S3 using `script/publish`. Therefore to update the website a valid merge
into the master branch is required.

[ci]: https://circleci.com/gh/bioboxes/bioboxes.org
[haml]: http://haml.info/
