# Trying Docker for the first time

Docker uses the concept of software images. A Docker image is analogous to a
box that can include applications, data or anything else that can be stored on
a computer. These 'boxes' allow you or others to more easily share some
bioinformatics software, for instance compared with trying to compile a tool
from C source.

## Getting a Docker image

First test that Docker is installed on your system. The following command
should exit without error. If this does not work see [the instructions for
installing Docker.][install]

[install]: https://docs.docker.com/installation/

~~~ bash
docker -v
~~~

The command `docker pull` will fetch an image from DockerHub where images are
stored. Try fetching the `busybox` which is a simple image.

~~~ bash
docker pull busybox
~~~

Once this command has completed, you can test that the `busybox` image is
available on your system. The command `docker images` will show you all the
images on the system. You should see `busybox` in the list along with its size
and when it was created.

~~~ bash
docker images
~~~

This is the basics for getting Docker images. If someone tells you they created
a Docker image of their bioinformatics tool these are the commands you would
for getting the image


## Exercises

  * Fetch the nucleotides/velvet image. How big is it?

  * Create a sleeping docker container without using '&'. You can do this by
    looking at available options for `docker run`

  * Create a sleeping docker container and then kill it using `docker kill`

  * Change the internal state of a container using `docker run busybox sh -c`.
    Then use `docker diff` to show which file have changed inside the
    container. *This exercise may be tricky.* You will have to work out how to
    identify your container after is no longer running.

