# Trying Docker for the first time

This guide page describes how to fetch Docker images onto your computers. This
is the starting point for using Docker. You will often begin by fetching an
image somelse has written for their software.

Docker uses the concept of software images. A Docker image is analogous to a
box that can include applications, data or anything else that can be stored on
a computer. These 'boxes' allow you or others to more easily share some
bioinformatics software, for instance compared with trying to compile a tool
from C source.

## Getting a Docker image

First test that Docker is installed on your system. The following command
should exit without error. If this does not work see [the instructions for
installing Docker.][install]

[install]: https://docs.docker.com/installation/

~~~ bash
docker -v
~~~

The command `docker pull` will fetch an image from DockerHub where images are
stored. Try fetching the `busybox` which is a simple image.

~~~ bash
docker pull busybox
~~~

Once this command has completed, you can test that the `busybox` image is
available on your system. The command `docker images` will show you all the
images on the system. You should see `busybox` in the list along with its size
and when it was created.

~~~ bash
docker images
~~~

This is the basics for getting Docker images. If someone tells you they created
a Docker image of their bioinformatics tool these are the commands you would
for getting the image


## Exercises

  * Fetch the bioboxes/velvet image. How big is it?
