# How to create a biobox

Bioboxes provides an interface definition to allow Docker containers of the
same type to be interchangeable. This guide provides a step by step description
for creating a simple biobox and consists out of the sections

* [Create a Docker Image][create]

* [Read the RFC][read-the-rfc]

* [Create a Task][task]

* [Putting everything Together][together]

* [Validate your Biobox][validate]

Each section has an example where an assembler biobox (velvet) following the biobox specification version 0.9.0+  
is implemented. The final velvet biobox is available in our [Github][velvet] repository. 
This guide requires that you have familiarity with [unix commands][] and [Docker][].

[unix commands]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Unix_commands
[Docker]: http://www.docker.com

# Creating a Docker image

Docker uses the concepts "images" and "containers". An image can be thought of
as a blueprint of your tool, including all the dependencies it needs to run.
When you use a Docker image, such as passing FASTQ data, then you create an
live instance of the image running on your system. This is called a container.

The first step to creating an image of your tool is to write a Dockerfile. Each
line in a Dockerfile is a set of instructions that are to build an image. Below
is an example Dockerfile which you can copy. There is more [detailed
documentation available for building Dockerfiles][Dockerfile].

[Dockerfile]:https://docs.docker.com/reference/builder/

## Example

This example sets the base image operating system as Ubuntu version 14:04 using
the `BASE` directive. Next you should specify your name and email address
using the `MAINTAINER` line. The last line installs the [velvet][] genome
assembler using the apt package manager. This line is broken across two lines
using `\`, this makes the Dockerfile easier to read as opposed to very long
lines.

[velvet]:https://www.ebi.ac.uk/~zerbino/velvet/

~~~ Dockerfile
FROM ubuntu:14.04
MAINTAINER first_name last_name, mail@example.com
RUN apt-get update -y && \
    apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends velvet
~~~

You can test this example Dockerfile by building an image. The `--tag`
specifies what the image should be called. In this case "velvet", because this
is the name of the assembler.

~~~ shell
docker build --tag velvet .
~~~

If this builds successfully you should have a velvet Docker image available on
your system. You list all your images with the command.

~~~ shell
docker images
~~~

You can create a container from this image and then log into it. This will
allow you to test that the internals are correct.

~~~ shell
docker run --interactive --tty velvet /bin/bash
~~~

This specifies that you want to log into a velvet container interactively and run
the command `/bin/bash`. When you run this you should a prompt inside your
container. You can test that velvet is available:

~~~ shell
velveth
~~~

You can now exit this container with `CTRL+D`.

Next section: [Read the RFC][read the rfc]

[create]:/guide/developer/build-your-image/
[read-the-rfc]:/guide/developer/read-the-rfc/
[task]:/guide/developer/create-a-task/
[together]:/guide/developer/putting-everything-together/
[validate]:/guide/developer/validate-your-biobox/
[read the rfc]:/guide/developer/read-the-rfc/
