# Create a Task

Tasks allow the same assembler to be run with different combinations of
parameters. You can also think of a task as a command bundle that groups
different command line flags together into a simpler interface. This guide
describes using tasks in your image.

The a biobox interface requires that a container be called with a `task`
parameter. This follows the name of the biobox when using `docker run`.
 
~~~shell
docker run [OPTIONS] BIOBOX_NAME TASK
~~~

You should use tasks to describe the different ways your software can be run.
Using genome assembly as an example, there might be a way to run an assembler
that create large contigs but at the same time may contain errors. There may
also be a separate way to run an assembler more carefully which results in
smaller more correct contigs. These different ways of running the same software
are the reason tasks are used.

Each biobox should provide a `default` task which should be the set of command
line flags that work best in most situations. The task should later be provided
to your run command:

### Example

In this velvet example we'll create a script that provides two tasks.
We'll define this in a file called `Taskfile`. It is important for the next sections that you place
this file in the same directory you have placed the Dockerfile of the preceding section.
You can see the `default` task contains
the commands to run velvet along with environment variables.

~~~ shell
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bioboxes/velvet/developer_guide/Taskfile
~~~

The second task has a larger kmer size and sets a low assembly coverage cutoff.
The Taskfile is added in your Dockerfile with an `ADD` command and now looks like this:

~~~ Dockerfile
FROM ubuntu:14.04
MAINTAINER first_name last_name, mail@example.com

RUN apt-get update -y && \
    apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends \
    velvet wget xz-utils ca-certificates

# Locations for biobox file validator
ENV VALIDATOR /bbx/validator/
ENV BASE_URL https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/bioboxes-tools/validate-biobox-file
ENV VERSION  0.x.y
RUN mkdir -p ${VALIDATOR}
RUN wget \
      --quiet \
      --output-document -\
      ${BASE_URL}/${VERSION}/validate-biobox-file.tar.xz \
    | tar xJf - \
      --directory ${VALIDATOR} \
      --strip-components=1
ENV PATH ${PATH}:${VALIDATOR}
ADD Taskfile /
~~~

In the next section you will see
how you can access the task with a simple shell command.