# What is a biobox?

Software has proliferated in bioinformatics and so have the problems associated
with it: missing or unobtainable code, difficult to install dependencies,
unreproducible workflows, all with terrible user experiences. We have created
bioboxes with the aim to make accessing and using bioinformatics software more
simple and more easy.

A biobox is a Docker image where the input files, input parameters, and output
files are specified so that every biobox of the same type has the same
interface. The Docker platform, which bioboxes uses, makes it much simpler for
developers to share their their bioinformatics tools. The bioboxes'
standardised interface then makes swapping one tool for another much simpler
because they have indentical interfaces.

An example biobox type is a short-read assembler. The interface for these image
accepts an input paired-FASTQ file and returns a contig FASTA file. Each
developer creating a biobox should make sure the container accepts these inputs
and returns the expected outputs. A list of [biobox images][] shows which short
read assembler containers are currently available.

[biobox images]: /available-bioboxes/

We believe a community standard, using software containers, has the opportunity
to solve the current software usability problems and increase the standard of
scientific software as a whole. A standard for bioinformatics containers will
move us towards a more open environment for anyone to innovate, collaborate and
share their scientific software. Working in a truly standardized and
interoperable ecosystem, will allow bioinformatics algorithmic developments to
become useful to everyone.
