The bioboxes project aims to be developed through feedback and contributions
from the bioinformatics community. This standard can only work if it solves the
right problems in the right way. Therefore if you have found any problems or
would like to provide comments there are many ways to do so.

### Create a discussion issue

General comments and feedback can be given by opening an issue on the [github
issue tracker][issue]. This can be used to provide comments on any general area
of the project such as improvements you would like to see, or flaws that should
be pointed out. The more specific your comments, the better and more likely
they are to receive a quick response from one of the bioboxes members. Issues
of this type will be labelled "A-discussion" for "Area - discussion".

[issue]: https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/issues

### Create an actionable issue

Your feedback may be more detailed than just general comments. For example you
may have found inaccurate information in one of the RFCs or on the website. You
can open a more specific type of issue on the [github tracker][issue]. When
opening this type of issue please include how a successful implementation would
look. For example: *"A patch to resolve this will update the short read
assembler RFC to illustrate how long mate pair reads can given to the
container."* As above, the more specific your comments in the issue the easier
it will be for the bioboxes core team to respond and resolve it.

### Propose a minor fix or improvement

You may be able to provide a specific improvement to an [RFC][] or the
[website][]. This may be fixing typos, or rewording text for clarity. In this
case we very much appreciate [github pull requests][request]. You can do this
as follows:

  * Fork the corresponding repository you would like to make changes to.
  * Create a branch with your commits on your github fork. The branch should be
    named **fix/PATH-TO-SPEC/name-of-fix** for a change to an RFC, or
    **fix/name-of-fix** for general changes.
  * Create a pull request to the original repository from your branch.
  * Add a description to the pull request outlining the reason for the changes.
    This does not have to be more than a few sentences if the changes are minor
    or obvious.

[RFC]: https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc
[website]: https://github.com/bioboxes/bioboxes.org
[request]: https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/

### Propose a major change

A change to an RFC that would be classified as major might be in the way data
is given to the container or what the output should be. Before implementing a
major change please open a discussion ticket with a general outline of your
changes first, this will help us provide feedback and suggestions.

Each RFC has a [semantic version number][semver] and a named maintainer. All
issues and pull requests for this RFC will be assigned to the maintainer for
action. The branch containing the commits should be named
`feature/PATH-TO-RFC/name-of-fix` to help identify which RFC is changed. The
branch should also update the version number in the relevant RFC depending on
the type of change. The version is updated as follows:

[semver]: http://semver.org

  * **X.0.0**: A change containing a one or more backwards-incompatible major
    update to an RFC. This type of branch should be rare as this will require
    all existing implementations to be updated to match the new interface.
    Therefore as many breaking changes as possible should be combined at once.
    An example of this type of breaking change would be renaming an existing
    environment variable.

  * **X.Y.0**: A branch containing to one or more backwards-compatible changes
    to an RFC. An example is an additional environment variable provided to the
    container that may be optionally used, and does not break existing
    implementations. This type of branch should still be considered with
    caution as once implemented, this must be maintained in all future versions
    to prevent backwards-incompatible changes.
